README.md, before:

# About
> In [Noori et al. (2020)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2020.105225), we hypothesized that there is a shared gene expression signature underlying neurodegenerative proteinopathies including Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Lewy body diseases (LBD), and the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia (ALS-FTD) spectrum. To test this hypothesis, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of human CNS transcriptomic datasets in the public [Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/) and [ArrayExpress](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/) repositories. Here, we provide the source code to generate the data quality reports and perform differential expression analyses for these datasets. Please see our accompanying publication in *Data In Brief* for additional information.

<br>

# Setup
Install [R](https://www.r-project.org/) to run our code.
<br><br>

# Code Availability
Our source code is available via GitHub at [ayushnoori.github.io/nd-diff-expr](https://ayushnoori.github.io/nd-diff-expr/).
<br><br>

# Citation

**Research Paper:** Noori, A.,<sup>1,2,3,4</sup>, Mezlini, A.M.,<sup>2,3,4,5</sup>, Hyman, B.T.,<sup>2,4,5</sup>, Serrano-Pozo, A.,<sup>2,4,5*</sup>, Das, S.,<sup>2,3,4,5</sup>. 2020. Systematic review and meta-analysis of human transcriptomics reveals neuroinflammation, deficient energy metabolism, and proteostasis failure across neurodegeneration. Neurobiology of Disease  149, 105225. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2020.105225

**Methods Paper:** Noori, A.,<sup>1,2,3,4</sup>, Mezlini, A.M.,<sup>2,3,4,5</sup>, Hyman, B.T.,<sup>2,4,5</sup>, Serrano-Pozo, A.,<sup>2,4,5*</sup>, Das, S.,<sup>2,3,4,5</sup>. 2021. Central nervous system differential gene expression data across Alzheimer’s disease, Lewy body diseases, and ALS-FTD. In press.

### Affiliations
1.	Harvard College, Cambridge, MA 02138, United States of America
2.	Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States of America
3.	MIND Data Science Lab, Cambridge, MA 02139, United States of America
4.	MassGeneral Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease, Charlestown, MA 02129, United States of America
5.	Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, United States of America

*\* Co-Corresponding Authors*
<br><br>

# Acknowledgements
TThis work was supported by the Alzheimer’s Association (AACF-17-524184 to AS-P), the National Institute of Aging (K08AG064039 to AS-P and P30AG062421 to BTH and SD), the Rainwater Charitable Foundation (to BTH), and a MassLife Sciences MassCATS award (to BTH and SD). The funding sources had no role in study design; data collection, analysis and interpretation; or manuscript preparation.

Commit message:

Updated vignette and README.md.

README.md, after:

# About
> In [Noori et al. (2020)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2020.105225), we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of human CNS transcriptomic datasets in the public [Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/) and [ArrayExpress](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/) repositories across Alzheimer's disease (AD), Lewy body diseases (LBD), and the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia (ALS-FTD) disease spectrum. Here, we provide the source code to generate the data quality reports and perform differential expression analyses for these datasets. Please see our accompanying publication in *Data In Brief* for additional information.

<br>

# Prerequisites
Please install [R](https://www.r-project.org/) to run our code, as well as all requisite packages.
<br><br>

# Vignette
Our vignette is available at [ayushnoori.github.io/nd-diff-expr](https://ayushnoori.github.io/nd-diff-expr/).
<br><br>

# Citation

**Research Paper:** Noori, A.,<sup>1,2,3,4</sup>, Mezlini, A.M.,<sup>2,3,4,5</sup>, Hyman, B.T.,<sup>2,4,5</sup>, Serrano-Pozo, A.,<sup>2,4,5*</sup>, Das, S.,<sup>2,3,4,5</sup>. 2020. Systematic review and meta-analysis of human transcriptomics reveals neuroinflammation, deficient energy metabolism, and proteostasis failure across neurodegeneration. Neurobiology of Disease  149, 105225. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2020.105225

**Methods Paper:** Noori, A.,<sup>1,2,3,4</sup>, Mezlini, A.M.,<sup>2,3,4,5</sup>, Hyman, B.T.,<sup>2,4,5</sup>, Serrano-Pozo, A.,<sup>2,4,5*</sup>, Das, S.,<sup>2,3,4,5</sup>. 2021. Central nervous system differential gene expression data across Alzheimer’s disease, Lewy body diseases, and ALS-FTD. In press.

### Affiliations
1.	Harvard College, Cambridge, MA 02138, United States of America
2.	Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States of America
3.	MIND Data Science Lab, Cambridge, MA 02139, United States of America
4.	MassGeneral Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease, Charlestown, MA 02129, United States of America
5.	Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, United States of America

*\* Co-Corresponding Authors*
<br><br>

# Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the Alzheimer’s Association (AACF-17-524184 to AS-P), the National Institute of Aging (K08AG064039 to AS-P and P30AG062421 to BTH and SD), the Rainwater Charitable Foundation (to BTH), and a MassLife Sciences MassCATS award (to BTH and SD). The funding sources had no role in study design; data collection, analysis and interpretation; or manuscript preparation.
